ARROW-13727: Recipe to concatenate two tables (#76)
apache/arrow-cookbook: python/source/data.rst

.. testoutput::

  0 .. 198

Appending tables to an existing table
=====================================

If you have data split in two different tables, it's possible
to combine them into a single table that is the concatenation
of the original tables.

If we have the list of oscar nominations divided in two different tables:

.. testcode::

  import pyarrow as pa

  oscar_nominations_1 = pa.table([
    ["Meryl Streep", "Katharine Hepburn"],
    [21, 12]
  ], names=["actor", "nominations"])

  oscar_nominations_2 = pa.table([
    ["Jack Nicholson", "Bette Davis"],
    [12, 10]
  ], names=["actor", "nominations"])

We can join them into a single one using :func:`pyarrow.concat_tables`:

.. testcode::

  oscar_nominations = pa.concat_tables([oscar_nominations_1, 
                                        oscar_nominations_2])

  print(oscar_nominations.to_pydict())

.. testoutput::

  {'actor': ['Meryl Streep', 'Katharine Hepburn', 'Jack Nicholson', 'Bette Davis'], 'nominations': [21, 12, 12, 10]}

.. note::

>   By default appending two tables is a zero-copy operation, that doesn't need to
>   copy or rewrite data. As tables are made of :class:`pyarrow.ChunkedArray`
>   the result will be a table with multiple chunks, each pointing to the original
>   data that has been appended. Under some conditions, Arrow might have to
>   do casts (if `promote=True`) and in such cases the data will need to be copied
>   and an extra cost will occurr.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  By default, appending two tables is a zero-copy operation that doesn't need to
  copy or rewrite data. As tables are made of :class:`pyarrow.ChunkedArray`,
  the result will be a table with multiple chunks, each pointing to the original 
  data that has been appended. Under some conditions, Arrow might have to 
  cast data from one type to another (if `promote=True`).  In such cases the data 
  will need to be copied and an extra cost will occur.
```
